This guide covers how to flash your BIOS and transition from ChromeOS to Windows or Linux.

⚠️ CRITICAL WARNINGS
MBR Booting: If you are using MBR (Master Boot Record) partition style, you MUST use Ventoy to boot.

Windows Bootloader: Installing Windows will almost certainly lock your bootloader. If your system locks up, you will need to use your BIOS backup file to recover.

Debug Boards: I highly recommend using a SuzyQable or a debug board to unlock write protection safely.

1. Enter Developer Mode
Before you can run any scripts, you must break out of the standard ChromeOS security:
Turn off the Chromebook.
Press Esc + Refresh + Power.
At the "Recovery" screen, press Ctrl + D.
Confirm the transition. Note: From now on, whenever you boot, you must press Ctrl + D. DO NOT PRESS SPACE, or you will factory reset the device.

2. Disable Hardware Write Protection (WP)
To flash a Full ROM BIOS, you must physically or electronically disable Write Protection:
Option A: Use a SuzyQable (Best for Samsung Chromebook 4).
Option B: Open the device and disconnect the battery.
Option C: Remove the physical write-protect screw (found on older models).

3. Flash the Firmware
Once WP is disabled, boot into ChromeOS, press Ctrl + Alt + F2 (Forward button), log in as chronos, and run:
cd; curl -LO mrchromebox.tech/firmware-util.sh && sudo bash firmware-util.sh
Option 3 (Full ROM): Recommended for a pure Windows/Linux experience.
Option 1 (RW_Legacy): Use this if you want to keep ChromeOS alongside another OS.
BACKUP: When the script asks to back up your firmware, DO IT. Store that .rom file on a USB or a cloud service like MediaFire.

4. Create Your Bootable USB
You will need a separate PC to prepare your installation media:
Download Ventoy: 'https://www.ventoy.net/en/download.html'
Install Ventoy to your USB drive (Warning: This wipes all data on the USB).
Simply drag and drop your Windows 10 or Linux ISO file onto the USB drive.

5. Installation
Plug your USB into the Chromebook and reboot.
If using Full ROM, it should boot straight to Ventoy.
If using RW_Legacy, press Ctrl + L at the white splash screen, then press 1.
Follow the installer instructions for your chosen OS.

🛠️ Troubleshooting
Windows Failure: If Windows won't install or run correctly, use Linux Mint instead. It is much more stable on Chromebook hardware.
Bootloader Lock: If you get locked out, you must reinstall ChromeOS using a recovery image or flash your BIOS backup using a SuzyQable.
Reference Backups: If you lost your BIOS file, check my repository here for a reference: tallywker990 GitHub.
